hey don't be mad at me but I'm thinking
that whatever you do with your
smartphone you're probably not using all
its functions to the max well hey let's
correct that here are some awesome
smartphone features you might not have
heard about one extending battery life
looking at a phone with maximum screen
brightness is not only bad for your eyes
it also does a real number on your
battery life cut the brightness down to
about 30 to 50 percent or take advantage
of your phone's auto brightness feature
smart phones have a built-in motor that
needs a certain amount of power to make
the vibrate function work the same isn't
true for the ringtone sound if you don't
want to disturb the people around you
just put your phone on silent and keep
it near you so that you can see it when
it lights up GPS or location services
are real lifesavers when you're on the
hunt for the nearest pizza joint
on the downside they do wreak havoc on
your battery tweak location services and
use them sparingly you can also choose
which of your apps can use this feature
turn off push notifications in your
email settings to instantly boost your
phone's battery life as an alternative
change it to fetch which lets you check
your emails based on a schedule and not
whenever you have the urge the screen is
the biggest energy drainer of all the
components in a phone if you're like me
and forget to turn the display off when
you set your phone down then you might
want to put the screen timeout to the
lowest setting possible your battery
will thank you
keeping your phone fully charged at all
times is actually not very good for the
battery
pull the cord when it reaches 80% and
recharge before it drops down to 20%
don't leave your phone plugged in for
too long just give it 10 to 15-minute
bursts of juice whenever the opportunity
presents itself the charging point gets
pretty dirty with lint and other debris
from your bellybutton I mean your
pockets that easily get stuck inside
make it a habit to clean this port with
a pointed q-tip or a toothpick just as
often as you wipe the screen it won't be
long til you notice how much more
effective charging has become each time
you check your text messages or missed
calls the wallpaper is there and it
keeps eating up your battery the same
thing goes for a live or any other type
of moving wallpapers that's why it's
always better to go for black and white
wallpapers not only do they look cool
and elegant AHA but they also conserve
your smartphone's battery way better
when left on all the time the
auto-rotate function just dries your
battery out completely it works
thanks to a special sensor called an
accelerometer that runs constantly in
the background waiting for you to turn
your phone switch it off immediately
when you no longer need to auto rotate
and you'll see a difference you know how
your phone sometimes just freezes and
refuses to do anything at all that's
because you don't let your battery get a
proper rest at night make sure to turn
your phone off every night so that the
battery can cool down
number two useful tweaks if your phone
is running on fumes and you don't have
much time to wait for it to charge
enable airplane mode it's your best
option to charge your phone much faster
than usual the thing is airplane mode
blocks all incoming and outgoing signals
that normally drain your battery a lot
if you have an iPhone and an iPad you
can use the iPad power adapter to charge
your iPhone it's absolutely safe for the
battery itself so don't worry the more
powerful adapter will
charge your phone twice as fast when you
are writing an important letter or
message you have to think twice before
you send it that's why we often rewrite
the text a few times
iPhone and iPad owners can use the shake
to undo feature to delete all the text
that just type just shake your device
and tap undo in the pop-up window when
you're using a free app or playing a
free-to-play game there are often
annoying pop-up ads if you're not ready
to pay for the premium ad free content
just switch your phone to airplane mode
and enjoy your favorite apps without
interruption don't get too excited
though you might miss an important call
if you lose your phone and somebody
finds it they can find you thanks to
Android and iOS function that lets you
put into the system your name your email
address and a different phone number
someone can use to contact you by the
way you can also add information about
your closest relatives your blood type
and other medical information in case
something you know bad happens to you
this will make the doctor's job easier
and more effective Auto timer on iOS
will allow your device to turn off all
the audio at a certain time
first go to timer and choose its length
tap when timer ends and select stop
playing at the bottom select set and
start your timer when your timer goes
off any audio currently playing will
stop now you can go to sleep to music
and not worry about the charge in the
morning want to read an e-book and use a
dictionary at the same time without
having to switch screens just enable
multi window mode to do this open the
right app and hold the task list key to
the right of the home button
unfortunately not every smartphone is
able to work in this mode
using a special feature of Android you
can leave a message on the lockscreen
for the person who finds your phone if
you lose it for example you can ask to
have it returned go to Settings lock
screen and security lock screen
signature now write a backup phone
number or your email they're done you
can also use your smartphone as a
dashcam in your car all you need to do
is install your phone on the dashboard
so that it has the best view of the road
if you are serious about your smartphone
and use it all the time
you may as well change its settings like
a professional to do so you need to go
to the developer menu go to settings
about the phone click seven times on
model number congrats now you are the
developer using this menu you can
improve the overall performance signal
reception quality and system appearance
want to save your battery and your
eyesight then go to your smart phone in
monochrome mode while reading go to the
developers menu and find simulate
anomaly then switch the monochrome mode
on now your phone will work in black and
white phone memory stories can be
usually expanded by a memory card or
cloud storage but you can also use
messengers as an expansion to some of
them allow you to send links files and
text to yourself input your own phone
number or ID and start the chat here you
go number three
iPhone features you can easily create
your own vibration patterns for
notifications launch the Settings app on
your iPhone then tap on sounds and
select an alert type in the sounds and
vibration list tap vibration create new
vibration start recording and tap the
center of the screen in the sequence you
want the vibration to be
once you're done stop recording and save
your pattern it will be stored in the
vibration section ringtone menu among
the list of custom patterns to enable
the burst mode on your smartphone press
and hold the camera shutter button now
it will shoot many photos at a time if
you like taking panoramic shots with
your iPhone you know that annoying
feeling you want the shooting process to
go the other way around but you can't do
it simply tap the arrow on the screen
though and it's done one of the iPhones
most popular basic apps is calculator
there is a smart trick to play with it
too if you made a mistake in the digit
that you tied just swipe your finger to
the left or right of the numbers to
clear the last digit number for Android
features if you prefer to listen to the
text rather than read it go to Settings
accessibility and turn on the
text-to-speech output option go to
settings security device administrators
and check the boxes next to Android
device manager remotely locate this
device and allow remote lock in a race
now if you lose your smartphone you can
locate it and block it without losing
your data via a special website if you
need to give your phone to your child to
play a game or lend it to your friend
you need the guest mode that only
Android phones have it works exactly
like the similar feature on computers on
the one hand to keep your data safe so
nobody sees it or accidentally deletes
it on the other hand the guest will have
a completely clean phone ready for
comfortable using
go to settings accessibility
magnification gestures then you'll be
able to zoom in on any part of the
display just by tapping you needn't buy
a separate modem or a router to use the
internet on different devices because
your smartphone can do this easily go to
settings tethering and portable hotspot
and turn on portable WLAN hotspot that's
it